-: Welcome back.
Let's go to our GitHub repository now.
And we are in section
19, which is ELB network load balancers.
So we are adding this as part of a new section now,
so that's the reason we have added it at the end
of the course, even though we are going to have these videos
whenever we complete this section 08 and then 09,
after that you'll have the section 19 related videos
because, so that is the order you need to watch,
which is nothing but.
So first you'll learn the 08 new ELB applications
load balancer related things,
which means all the Ingress related 14 demos
you'll complete.
And after that you'll complete your
Fargate related demos
and then you'll come back to this one which is section 19.
Where is it?
So it is here and you are going to complete this six demos.
So now let's come back here
and we are in 1901
LBC and LB basics.
So what is LBC is nothing but load balancer controller.
So the naming also I've given ELB network load balancers
with LBC.
LBC means load balancer controller.
So we'll go inside this,
and if you see here as part of introductory section
we already understood what we are going to implement, right?
And what exactly is the cloud provider load balancer
controller legacy,
are what is the latest load balancer controller
latest and all those things.
So as part of step two, we are going to review our
NGINX app three deployment.
So let's go to our Visual Studio Code here
and we are in section 19.
And in section 19 we are in
LBC
NLB
basics.
And there in the cube manifest we are reviewing
the 01 NGINX app three deployment.
So this is again our standard NGINX deployment.
And as part of our Ingres demos.
our application load balancer demos
we already learned all these things in detail,
which means we have app one deployment
and NodePort service,
app two deployment and NodePort service,
app three deployment and NodePort service.
So from there we have brought this app three deployment
related manifest.
So standard deployment manifest.
And now we'll move to the next step
which is nothing, but we'll review the 02 LBC
NLB loadbalancersservice.yaml.
So here, if you see here the name, right?
So the name of your
load balancer we are going to put as base 6 LBC network LB.
And you can see API version is V1, kind is service.
So you are going to create a load balancer NLB, right?
Using the Kubernetes service manifest, right?
That's the reason before going to in metadata
we have reviewed the name as basics LBC network LB,
and we leave these annotations
and we'll go here further spec, right?
So API version kind metadata
and spec are the high level items.
and API version is V1, and kind is service.
And in metadata you have the name basics, LBC network LB,
and in the spec you have the type as load balancer.
So which means you are creating a load balancer service
and selector is
app, app three NGINX.
So any request coming to this service
should go to the pods which has the selector label
app three Nginx.
And if you go here, you have the same thing.
In selector match labels of your deployment
you'll find the app three Nginx.
So which means any request coming to this service
will go to that respective ports
of that respective deployment.
And this is the service port and this is the target port,
right?
So here only you have defined your listener pod.
We don't need to define anything in the annotations here.
So whatever you define the port here
that respective listener will be created.
So let's go back and understand this.
So you can see here the listener 80, right?
So it is created because you have the port 80.
So if you define here something, right?
So some 443, right?
And target port is 80 is your backend port.
But whenever you define the port
your listener will get created in the network load balancer.
And whenever you define the target port
it'll create new target groups.
So just understand.
So whenever you define target port, it creates target group
in
NLB.
And whenever you define port
it creates new listener
in NLB.
So this is, in the next demo
whenever we deal with SSL you'll clearly understand,
but it's a high level thing just to see
what it is going to create.
So port is 80 and target port our backend port is 80,
our pod is listening on port 80,
the container inside the pod.
So that is good.
So now let's come back and review these annotations.
So you have the traffic routing, health check
part settings, access control, and then resource stacks.
So all these things we have took from here
in our AWS load balancer controller,
and in the guide
and in service you'll find something called annotations,
right?
So here you'll find all the related annotations
related to
NLB.
So now let's come back here
and start discussing about that traffic routing
related annotations.
So the first thing is you have provided the name
for your load balancer name.
So standard as our Ingres load balancer name.
So which is basics LBC network LB is by load balancer name
with which it creates in my AWS Management Console
you can see this.
And this name is your, whenever you type QCT
you'll get SVC the name of your service Kubernetes object.
So that one is this one.
So now this load balancer type we have discussed extensively
in our introduction.
So we are going to give external
because this service need to be associated
with our LBC, load balancer controller latest, right?
And this is the AWS load balancer NLB target type.
So you're going to use the instance.
So whenever you use the instance, right.
Specifies the target type to configure your NLB.
You can choose either instance or IP.
So we are using the instance
which means
worker related nodes.
NodePorts will be registered as the targets here.
Worker nodes will be registered as targets here
with the NodePorts.
Okay.
And now, another important annotation here
is AWS load balancer subnets.
So if you don't define this
it is going to automatically take it.
But if you are in need of specifying specific subnets,
so this is called AWS load balancer subnets
is a custom subnet discovery.
So you can provide your subnet ideas here
and accordingly in those subnets only this NLB
will be created.
And now, so we don't need to go to that specific level
because we don't have any requirement that way.
So it'll automatically go and then create
in the available subnets for us in the public subnet, right?
So now another important thing here
is health check settings.
So from health check settings perspective
so you can define your protocol history TP TCPR,
history TPS.
So my backend is listening on port 80
which is a history TP.
So I can directly use TCP here
and don't need to put all this path and all those things.
But my backend I should have a proper health check thing.
So that's the reason I have used history TP traffic port
and in my backend in the root context/index.html
will be my context health check path for me.
And these thresholds I have defined, defaults.
That's the thing.
And if you see here from access control perspective,
so this load balancer source ranges
will tell us specifies the CIDR
that are allowed to access the network load balancer.
So I have put it.
Because I'm creating a internet facing load balancer,
I have put the entire internet range
so that anyone can access my network load balancer.
And another thing is AWS load balancer scheme.
So this is the annotation
which decides whether your load balancer
is a internal load balancer
which creates in the private subnets of your VPC,
or internet facing load balancer,
which creates in a public subnet of your VPC,
and they can be accessible via internet.
So we are creating first the internet facing one.
So we use this as internet facing.
And these are the standard resource tags
you can define.
So AWS load balancer additional resource tag
for your network load balancer.
So this completes the review of your annotations
and your Kubernetes service manifest.
So in our next lecture we are going to deploy
these things and test it.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye-bye. Thank you.